Did you notice in each of the titles of our symposium talks, it uses the word
despite. The English word despite can mean without being blocked or thwarted. So
our ability to rejoice will not be blocked or thwarted. We can actually rejoice
despite trials. Well initially that sounds contradictory, doesn't it? I use
we associate with rejoicing the receiving of gifts, not trials. And yet that is the very point.
We can rejoice despite trials because of gifts that Jehovah provides for us. And we're going to
review three of those in our symposium. Our relationship with Jehovah, our precious brotherhood,
and the glorious hope we have for the future. Please turn with me to Romans chapter five
verses three through five. And see if you can identify when this first gift is introduced
in the verses of relationship with Jehovah. Romans five three through five, it says not only
but let us rejoice while in tribulations since we know that tribulation produces endurance.
Endurance in turn and approve condition. Want to approve condition with whom?
It's with Jehovah. It says the approved condition in turn hope and the hope does not lead to
disappointment and why not? Because of this relationship with Jehovah, it says because the love
of God has been poured out into our hearts through the Holy Spirit, which was given to us.
Yes, when we endure trials, we can sense Jehovah's approval. And that helps us to rejoice
despite the hardship. Not find Romans 838 and 39. As you know, Paul experienced one trial after
the other. And yet he was convinced that no trial could distance him from Jehovah, could separate
him from God's love and abiding relationship. Romans 838 and 39. It says for I am convinced
that neither death nor life nor angels nor governments nor things now here nor things to come,
nor powers nor height nor depth. And then he says nor any other creation will be able to separate
us from God's love that's in Christ Jesus our Lord. Our relationship with God can help us
in times of trial. But how about the second gift from Jehovah? First Peter 5.9. First Peter 5.9,
Satan tries to capitalize on our trials. But notice the admonition here in verse 9.
It says but take your stand against him, firm in the faith. And what will help?
It says knowing that the same kind of suffering, so trials, are being experienced by the entire
association of your brothers in the world. While we have felt that trust, the support from our
brotherhood, particularly these last six months or so, we've sensed it so clearly. Romans 1212 is our
third gift from Jehovah provision to help us to endure trials. Romans 1212 and it says it so
very crystal clear. It says rejoice in the hope. And then it adds endure under tribulation
persevere in prayer. So our relationship with Jehovah, the brotherhood and our hope can help us
deal with these circumstances. And it might vary depending on circumstance. Just as an example,
a brother in prison might have no access at all to the brotherhood. So what sustains him?
Well, in that case, it would be his relationship with Jehovah. You may be remembering
Brother Harold King on JW Broadcasting. For four and a half years, he was in solitary confinement
in a Chinese prison. But was he really all alone? The authorities thought so. But he had the best
cellmate anyone would ever want. He said in his video interview, he said, I had a lovely relationship
with Jehovah. I loved him very dearly. He was real. He wasn't fictitious. Yes, Brother King was
able to rejoice under that trial because he had developed that real relationship with his God.
Another example. A depressed brother or sister may be struggling to maintain his relationship with
God. While there's another gift from Jehovah that can come into play, he may be supported by one
or more of the brotherhood. It's like a person who's fighting to breathe properly. He's still alive,
but he's struggling to hold on. But then incomes of support of a medical team and he begins
functioning normally again and breathing properly. Our brotherhood can come to our aid and support
when we're suffering depression or some other serious trial. Well, how can our hope help us to
rejoice despite the trial? Another example. Some of us have Christian parents who are now old and
incapacitated in some way. And that's a trial for us. It might be like a loved one having a
bad accident. And now he's laid up in a hospital bed. He can't take care of himself.
But then the doctor comes in and says, he's going to have a full recovery. Wow, that gives us
hope. It's similar with our elderly parents. Because of our sure hope of the future, it's like
Jehovah saying, they're going to have a full recovery from the ravages of old age. Yes, hope
helps us to rejoice. Whatever our situation or trial, we can be sure that one or more of these
provisions will help us suffer through the hardship with joy. I invite you to find now Romans chapter
eight. Romans chapter eight, we're going to look at verse 35 and 37. In this symposium,
we're going to be considering each of the seven trials mentioned in verse 35. Please identify
them with me. Romans 835. It says, who will separate us from the love of the Christ? Well, number one
tribulation, number two distress or persecution or hunger or nakedness or danger or sword.
That's the seven. But now look at verse 37. It says, on the contrary, in all these things, all seven of
them, we are coming off completely victorious through the one who loved us. Well, each symposium
talk will include a video of a brother or sister who experienced a trial, a severe one. And we will
identify which of these gifts help them to rejoice despite the tribulation. Let's consider that
first one that Paul addressed is called tribulation. Tribulation refers to suffering caused by some
trying situation, possibly a debilitating illness. Turn with me to second Corinthians chapter 12.
Second Corinthians 12, we're going to look at verse seven and eight.
This tribulation was vexing to Paul so much so that he called it a thorn in his flesh.
Second Corinthians 12, seven and eight says, to keep me from becoming overly exalted,
I was given a thorn in the flesh, an angel with Satan to keep slapping me.
So I might not be overly exalted. Three times I begged the Lord about this that it would depart from me.
A thorn in the flesh. So this obviously was a physical melody. And he said it kept slapping him.
So it was continuing on. It wasn't just like the common cold or flu and were better in a week or so.
This was continual. It was a chronic trial for him to deal with. And based on the scriptures,
it's thought that it may have been a serious degeneration of his eyesight. Well, that would have
been very disconcerning to Paul. In fact, he prayed three times that it would be gone,
taken away from me. And remember, they did not have eyeglasses with corrective lenses back then.
No eye surgery was available. So this was a chronic tribulation. And think about this, by
means of Holy Spirit, Paul had on a number of occasions cured people of their sickness.
So he could have easily wondered, where is this gift of the Holy Spirit when I need it? I need a cure.
Well, what helped Paul to rejoice despite his tribulation? It was as close a biting relationship
with Jehovah. If you still have 2 Corinthians 12 there, let's read together verse 9. And this is
where Jehovah tells Paul, you will have no miraculous cure. Verse 9, but he said to me,
my undeserved kindness is sufficient for you. For my power is being made perfect in weakness.
Jehovah says no cure, but I'm going to give you the power to continue on despite the tribulation.
Well, notice the relationship that Paul evidently has with Jehovah the last part of that verse.
He says, most gladly then, I will boast about my weaknesses in order that the power of the Christ
may remain over me like a tent. He rejoiced in the strength from Jehovah. Look at verse 10.
He says, so I take pleasure and we could substitute the word rejoice, a rejoice in weaknesses,
in insults, in times of need, in persecutions and difficulties for Christ, for when I am weak,
then I am powerful. Well, we want you to watch a video and this is an example of tribulation.
Now what helped this brother and his wife to rejoice under tribulation in the form of a serious
illness. For the last 45 years, I've been pioneer work, traveling work,
and being in Bethel here for a number of years. Health was very good. Never had any problems at all.
One day I had a headache. It was severe. I really couldn't see clearly anything.
We went to the Bethel doctor and he referred us to a specialist and a specialist gave us diagnosis
of a very aggressive brain tumor called glioblastoma. He had surgery the next Thursday.
Then after surgery, he had radiation and chemotherapy at the same time. A year later, he had to have
another surgery and he is right now on his fourth type of chemotherapy treatment.
From the very first time he got sick, the hardest thing was to see my husband become increasingly
dependent upon me and upon other people. I didn't want this to define who we are.
The brothers played a pivotal role in trying to help us when found out that I had to go in for
surgery, gave me a scripture and we prayed together and I'll always remember that. It was a
beautiful example and I also get a lot of encouragement from Sarah who gets us prepared for meetings.
When we go out in service, I've gotten an opportunity to go and help people.
Just talk to them and encourage them. In my Bethel assignment in the service department,
I have a brother or two who will come over and reveal a case that we're considering
and I get a lot of joy in that way. I'm very thankful that I can still do a little something
to help. For me, because he's been humbled through this whole thing, it's been easier.
My hope is strong and I'm going to keep right on going this way and serve Jehovah right
on into the New World or whatever comes. Obviously, Scott and Sarah Schofner had a good
relationship with Jehovah and Sarah supported Scott wonderfully. But do you notice the additional
gift from Jehovah? Scott said the Brotherhood played a pivotal role in helping them.
He remembered a specific scripture and a prayer that was shared before his surgery.
And young brothers came in and helped him with his assignment afterward. In his own words,
he said, that brought him a lot of joy, joy, despite tribulation. So how about you? Which of the
provisions from Jehovah is boying you up as you deal with your particular trial or tribulation?
Your relationship with Jehovah? Is it the Brotherhood? Your hope. Or maybe some other gift from God.
If you're stressed under tribulation, remember this. It's as if Jehovah is watching the monitor
and he sees us in pain of heart, but he reassures us as become. You're going to be okay. So no
matter the pain, no matter the tribulation may, we remember those words in Romans chapter 8
verse 37 and 39. In all these things, we are coming off completely victorious through the one
who loved us. And verse 39, it's saying nothing, nothing, no tribulation will be able to separate us
from God's love that's in Christ Jesus our Lord. Rejoice, despite tribulation.
And now it's my pleasure to introduce Brother Samuel Heard, member of the governing body,
for the talk on the symposium, we can rejoice despite distress.